#LyX 1.6.4 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding latin9
\font_roman default
\font_sans avant
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family sfdefault
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Order"
\pdf_author "Jukka Turja-Mäki & Marcus Jansson"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Customer order for extending ROSA functionality
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Order overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We would like to order extensions to the ROSA real time operating system.
 The extensions need to be integrated into the existing ROSA without breaking
 the old functionality.
 The API for the extended functionality is included in the Appendix.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We need the following features: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Fixed priority scheduler.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Dynamic creation and termination of tasks.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To be able to realize periodic activation and preemptive scheduling of tasks.
 System clock ticks and delay functionality have to be added.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Binary semaphore handling.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would also be highly desirable to include a semaphore protocol that avoids
 deadlock and bounds blocking time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Order details
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Fixed priority scheduler
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The scheduler in ROSA is too simple for our needs.
 Some tasks need to be at higher priority.
 Arrangements for this in the code would be really helpful.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Pre-emptive scheduling
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We need better control over the periodicity of our task execution.
 Therefore we need to have clock tick interrupts that keeps track of system
 time.
 Preferably we would like to have clock ticks in the millisecond range.
 Furthermore we need to have both relative and absolute delay functionality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Dynamic creation of tasks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We would like to be able to create and remove tasks on during run-time.
 That, is a task should be able to create other tasks on the fly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Semaphores
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Today we have no option to protect critical code section and access to shared
 resources.
 Thus, semaphores has to be included in ROSA.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With semaphores we can foresee some problems with deadlocks and unbounded
 priority inversion.
 Preferably we would like to use protocol to solve those problems.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
